[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You're listening to
the "Falling Asleep"
hypnotherapy audio.
In a moment, the
hypnosis will begin.
But before it does,
I'd like to remind you
that the following
audio contains
powerful hypnotic suggestions,
aiming to help you reach
a deep state of relaxation.
So please be sure that, wherever
you're listening to this audio,
you're in a safe and
comfortable place,
free from distractions, where
you can fully relax and let go.
Please don't listen to this
if you're driving or operating
machinery.
Should there be an emergency,
your subconscious mind
will alert you and you will
easily come out of hypnosis.
But right now,
there's nothing at all
you need to do apart
from close your eyes,
relax, lie back, and let go.
And really enjoy those peaceful
feelings and all the benefits
that come with it.
I'd like you, now, to
imagine that you're
in a beautiful garden
with colorful flowers
and immaculate manicured lawns.
The sun is shining, and
the sky is a clear blue.
The temperature is
just how you like it,
and there's a cool breeze.
There's no pollen
in the air at all,
and you feel happy
and comfortable
in the clean, fresh, pure air.
You take a look around you
at all the beautiful colors,
and you hear the sounds of
the birds singing overhead.
You're calm and relaxed here,
and you feel safe and secure.
And I'd like you, now,
to take in a deep breath.
And as you breathe out, you can
relax deeper and deeper now.
You take a gentle walk
around the garden.
And you're barefoot as you walk.
You can feel the lush,
green grass underfoot.
And you walk towards
some beautiful flowers.
And as you get
nearer, you can smell
their beautiful, fragrant scent.
The colors are magnificent,
and they grow brighter
as you approach them.
And now, take in another
long, deep breath.
And as you inhale the
rich, fragrant scent,
you relax even deeper as
you exhale gently now.
You take another stroll
around the garden,
and you find a pathway
leading down to a beach.
You follow the path,
stepping down easily
onto the wide steps beneath you
as you go deeper and deeper.
You relax more and more
with every step you take.
And you soon reach the
beautiful beach, which is empty.
And it has golden sand, like
a fine powder underfoot.
You enjoy the feeling of soft,
powdery sand beneath your feet.
And you take a look
out at the horizon.
You take in the
vastness of the sea.
And you watch as the
waves rhythmically
roll in and out again, one after
the other, gentle, rhythmic
waves rolling towards the
beach and back out again,
the sound of the waves
peaceful and reassuring.
You feel a sense
of calm and peace
as the sun gently shines down
on you with the warm sea air
gently sweeping over you.
As you walk across the
beach, you feel your feet
sinking further into the sand,
leaving a delicate footprint
behind you as you walk onwards,
relaxing deeper and deeper
with every step you take.
And as you reach the sea's
edge, the waves gently rolling
in and out, you notice how
your feet sink down deeper
than before into the wet sand.
You feel the water gently
lap at your ankles.
And it's warm and
inviting as you
let your toes test the water
with every wave that rolls in
and back out again.
And after a while,
when you're ready,
you walk back up the beach.
And there's a lovely deck
chair waiting just for you
on the sand under an
umbrella, offering
just the right amount of shade.
You take a seat and
you relax deeply now.
You take in a deep
breath and take
in your beautiful surroundings
as you gently exhale now.
You look out at the
calming sea again.
And you notice the sky, a clear,
blue sky without a cloud in it.
And you're feeling so
relaxed now as you sit
and relax comfortably and
deeply in your deck chair.
As you rest in that chair,
you can allow your mind
to imagine a staircase,
a beautiful staircase
with polished, ornate
banister running down
alongside a deep,
rich carpet that
feels soft to the touch
underneath your bare feet.
As you look down the
stairs, you notice
that there are 10 steps leading
gently down, 10 steps leading
gently down and down.
And these are the steps
that will lead you
into deep relaxation,
giving you access
to that powerful
subconscious, allowing
you to make those changes
that you want to make today.
In a moment, I'd like you to
walk down those steps with me.
And I'll count them off
for you one at a time.
And you'll find that
the deeper down you go,
the more comfortable and the
more relaxed you'll become.
So when you're ready to
walk down the stairs,
I want you to gently place
your hand onto the banister
and begin to slowly descend the
staircase as I count them off
from 10 to 1.
10.
Deeply relaxed,
deeply comfortable.
9.
Deeply relaxed,
deeply comfortable.
8.
More and more relaxed
now, sinking even further
into relaxation.
7.
Deeply comfortable, feeling
every muscle release
as you go deeper and deeper.
6, 5.
Even further into your deep
state of relaxation now.
4.
Allowing your mind and body to
fully relax as you sink further
into deep relaxation.
3.
Comfortable, heavy, any
tension completely gone now.
2.
Almost at the bottom now,
just one more step to go.
And 1.
Going deeper and
deeper down, now,
to hypnosis, all the way down
to that deeper, healthier level
of mind, deeper than
you've ever been.
And as you reach the
bottom of the staircase,
letting go of the
banister, you let
go of any worries or concerns.
This is your time, and you let
nothing bother or concern you
at all.
Nobody needs or wants
anything from you.
And you're now standing at
the bottom of those steps,
feeling so very comfortable,
very relaxed and at peace.
You can allow those stairs and
the ordinary, everyday world
to just fade away, further
and further away now
as you sit deeply into the
comfortable, relaxing state
deeply inside of you,
your subconscious mind
still fully alert and aware.
But you're ready for the
changes about to come.
Every night, when most
of us go to sleep,
we don't know exactly how or
when we'll drift off to sleep.
We just know that it usually
happens all by itself.
For many of us, sleep comes
easily and effortlessly.
And after a good night's
sleep, we can awaken,
refreshed and alert and ready
to embrace each new day .
Maybe you're not finding
sleep quite so easily
as you once did.
It may be that your
natural pattern of sleep
has been interrupted and you
have found yourself waking up
in the early hours
of the morning
and you're unable to
get back to sleep.
Maybe you feel the panic
rising as you simply
can't drift off back to sleep.
But all of this is
going to change now.
You're making steps
to change this
and listening to
this MindTALK is
a huge step towards
changing those thinking
and behavioral patterns.
Maybe you're waking
in the early hours
and you have some
intrusive thoughts
going around your head.
It may seem like the more you
try to put those thoughts out
of your mind, the more those
thoughts seem to persist.
They may even grow and magnify
until you're no longer drowsy.
You're fully awake
and absolutely
unable to get back to sleep.
Our minds are incredible.
And your imagination
at this hour
will be working at full speed.
When this happens,
the more you try
to push your thoughts away
and get back to sleep,
the less likely this is to
happen, the more difficult
it will become.
Just like when you're trying to
remember the name of something
and you think as hard as you can
but you just can't remember it,
it's only when you stop
trying that it comes to you.
You're no longer going to
try and go back to sleep.
This is wasted energy, and
it will work against you.
That old problem of waking
up in the early hours
and trying so hard
to get back to sleep
is now going to change.
There is no conscious
trying involved now.
You simply do it.
It will come to you
just like that forgotten
name you try to recall.
So from now on, if you do
wake in the early hours,
the first thing you do is
put sleep completely out
of your mind.
Instead, I would like you to
get into a comfortable position
and concentrate
on your breathing.
You place the tip of your
tongue on your upper front teeth
and keep it there
for the entire time
you're doing the
breathing exercise.
You remember that everyone has
a different rate of breath,
a different lung capacity.
And you must find a place
that's right for you.
So I'd like you, now,
to close your mouth
and inhale very quietly
through your nose
to a mental count of
four and hold your breath
for a count of seven.
So a count in for four and
hold your breath for seven.
Once you've done
that, you can then
exhale through your mouth
to a count of eight,
a long, slow, gentle,
powerful breath out.
And it may take you a few
goes to find your place,
to find a rhythm that's
comfortable for you.
But once you've
found it, you become
comfortable with your inhalation
for four, holding for seven,
exhaling for eight--
in for four, hold for
seven, out for eight.
And once you've found your
rhythm, you've found your pace,
and this breathing technique
comes easily to you,
you do this over and over.
You close your mouth.
You inhale quietly through
your nose to a count to four,
holding your breath
for a count of seven,
and exhaling to a
count of eight--
long, slow, gentle,
powerful breaths out.
It may take some practice,
and that's totally normal.
By breathing in this way,
you're quieting the mind,
letting go of worries,
and flooding your body
with oxygen, which has such a
relaxing effect on your body.
If your mind is still
working overtime
and those internal
thoughts are overpowering,
then I'd like you to
imagine a small, metal box.
You place those
thoughts inside the box
and close the lid firmly,
locking it securely.
You place the box on the side
of your bed on the floor.
And if a new thought
pops up, then you simply
put it inside the box and
remove it from your mind.
And as you're doing
this, you feel the relief
of tension flowing
out of you as you
know you can deal with
any worries the next day.
This is your time, and
anything else can wait.
Right now, your body is
heavy and comfortable, heavy
and relaxed.
And your mind is only focused
on your breathing and nothing
else.
And while still lying
comfortably and calmly,
you can allow your
mind to drift off
to anything that makes you
feel happy and at peace.
This may be a holiday coming up
or a beautiful memory, friends
you are about to
see, or maybe you
prefer to imagine yourself
relaxing in a hammock
on a beautiful beach with
a warm, gentle breeze
blowing over you.
There are so many
possibilities, and only you
know what's appropriate for you.
You may even imagine
yourself curled up in bed,
breathing heavily as you
are, under the covers
in your lovely cozy bed.
And perhaps you imagine that
it's a cold, icy night outside
and snow has been falling
for most of the day,
but you're toasty and
warm, snuggled up, heavy,
comfortable, and sleepy.
Consciousness begins to fade
as images float in and out
of your subconscious mind.
And you're surprised to
realize, when morning eventually
arrives and you
open your eyes, how
sleep came so naturally to you.
So, from now on,
you find you forget
about trying to go back to
sleep in those early hours.
And by listening
to this MindTALK,
maybe once, maybe a few
times, your mind and body
will start to make some changes.
And you'll be amazed
at how incredible you
feel after a long night's sleep,
waking refreshed and energized.
Your subconscious
mind will be taking
in all of these messages.
And after a while, when
the pattern is broken,
your mind will forget to
even think about sleep.
And you can forget to
wake up in the early hours
unless it's really
necessary that you remember.
And should intrusive
thoughts try
to enter your mind while
you're waiting for sleep,
you can always remember
to place them there
in the box next to
your bed and instantly
forget about them until
you're ready to deal
with the box's contents.
You remember your
breathing of in for four,
holding the breath for seven,
and exhaling for eight.
You no longer try
to go back to sleep.
You simply do.
Your mind allows you to create a
new sleeping pattern to emerge,
and you trust in
your mind to do this.
And you find yourself drifting
easily and effortlessly
into sleep once those
thoughts are safely
enclosed in that box.
You remember to wake up at
your desired waking up time,
feeling refreshed and alert
after a good night's sleep.
And of course, if there
is the occasional time
when you awaken during the
night, there's no panic.
That's absolutely normal.
But it happens less and
less as your new sleep
pattern re-establishes itself.
Your subconscious mind may
need a little practice at first
to get out of the habit.
But you're teaching your
mind new patterns now,
new behaviors, and
you trust in this.
It may be soon, maybe tonight,
or maybe in a few days' time,
but your subconscious
mind will surprise you
with a heavenly full night's
sleep with no interruptions
at all, no waking
up, no spending what
seems like an eternity
trying to recapture
the peaceful, sleepy state
you were previously enjoying.
Just one long, peaceful sleep
from evening to morning.
And of course, your
subconscious mind
always remembers when it's
your desired time to wake up.
And you can do so
easily and effortlessly,
feeling refreshed and alert
after a good night's sleep.